---
inFeed: true
hasPage: true
inNav: false
inLanguage: null
starred: false
keywords: []
description: ''
datePublished: '2016-03-03T13:10:56.033Z'
dateModified: '2016-03-03T13:10:41.194Z'
title: ''
author: []
authors: []
publisher:
  name: null
  domain: null
  url: null
  favicon: null
sourcePath: _posts/2016-03-03-5037a598-e7b9-44ec-b62a-59f393fd9d7f.md
published: true
url: 5037a598-e7b9-44ec-b62a-59f393fd9d7f/index.html
_type: Article

---
On the subject of sin. 

What is a sin? I believe the most general definition is "something you shouldn't do, because we said so."

I find this concept completely inadequate.  Is it not in our nature to question things? So when someone says "You must not eat the blue fishes," the immediate response is "Why?"

It is convenient for many people that what organized religion considers to be sinful is commonly also considered illegal in many societies. 

But how is this different from "because if you don't, we'll punish you?"

This sort of 'morality' encourages subversion.  A person who desires to act a certain way may even be more enticed towards that action due to the compounded consequences of getting caught. 

Personally, the things I consider to be 'wrong' are a bit more fleshed out than 'because.' 

I don't take from others because I want them to have what they need. 

I accept and tolerate those around me because I want them to feel loved.

It is also possible to wrap these concepts through selfish goals. 

I don't hurt others because I wouldn't want them to hurt me. 

I give my love unconditionally and freely because I want others to freely love me. 

As a race, are we not beginning to evolve past the concept of ineffable sins? Are we not perhaps too mature for things like unquestionable belief? 

Have you considered that it's so hard to not sin because perhaps sin itself is hard to take seriously? 

Why not instead frame things against the concept of harmony and disharmony? What actions cause the world around you to work better together and what actions cause the world around you to fall apart? I believe that this is more akin to what we can refer to as a morality.